ARB Module

The MIPS ARB module has two modes of opertation, TWAVE; desiged to support traveling wave
experiments, and a more conventional ARB output mode. The user interface Mode input allows
you to select operating modes and the user options will change depending on the mode
selected.

ARB TWAVE mode:

The MIPS ARB module enables the user to select from a number of predefinded waveforms or
a user defined waveforms to generate 8 output (each shifted 45 degrees from the next) to
support traveling wave experiments. An internal adjustable clock is used to set the
frequency of the waveforms. If the sine waveform is selected the following 8 output
waveforms will be generated:

    sine initial phase of   0 degrees
    sine initial phase of  45 degrees
    sine initial phase of  90 degrees
    sine initial phase of 135 degrees
    sine initial phase of 180 degrees
    sine initial phase of 225 degrees
    sine initial phase of 270 degrees
    sine initial phase of 315 degrees

Each waveform is identical but shifted 45 degrees from its neighbor. These 8 waveforms appear
on the 8 output BNC connectors or 15 pin D connector, on the rear panel of the MIPS Twave power
supply. If your system has a 15 pin D connector then the Twave channels 1 through 8 are pins 1
through 8 with pins 9 through 15 being ground.

The user can reverse the direction of the traveling wave using the provided user interface
option or by configuring an input to support external control of direction. Reversing direction
changes the sign of the phase shift.

The user can control the output waveform peak-to=peak voltage from 0 to 100 volts.

The waveform generation can be synchronized using a trigger signal applied to a
input on the rear panel of the MIPS box. This sync signal can be definded along with
its active edge using the MIPS user interface. When this sync pulse occues it will reset the
initial output phase to zero for channel 1, etc.

This dialog box allows you to control the key ARB parameters ans save to a file or recall
a previous setup using the load and save menu options.

Multi-pass compressor control table.

The multi-pass compressor control table is designed to allow control of the twave
parameters and synchronize parameter changes with the operation of the
compressor. The table is a simple string of characters with all commands being a
single character. The table also contains parameters and these are always whole
number parameters and they follow the command character. There are two types of
commands, state change commands and twave parameter commands.

State change commands stop the execution of the table until the state has
completed, for example a C or compression command will stop the table execution
until a full compression cycle has finished.

Twave parameter commands execute immediately and change controlling
parameters such as voltages and timing parameters.

State change commands
       N    Normal non-compressed twave cycle
       C    Compression cycle
       D    Delay, holds current state and stops the clock

Twave parameter commands
       S    Controls the output switch state, 1 and 0 for open and close
       O    Compression order or ratio, 0 = forever
       V    ARB 1 p-p voltage
       v    ARB 2 p-p voltage
       F    Waveform frequency
       c    Compression time in mS
       n    Normal time in mS, a compression cycle is the sum of c and n
       t    Non compression cycle time
       s    Stop the ARB clock
       r    Restart the ARB clock
       o    Defines gate open time in mS
       g    Time in mS from start of table to gate open
       G    Time in mS from start of table to gate close
       [    Start of a loop
       ]    End of a loop
       M    This is a mode command that defines the behavior of the compressor.
            There are three valid modes, 0, 1, and 2.  Mode 0 is the normal mode
            and Twave 1 and 2 amplitude controls set respective output pulse
            voltages in all states. Mode 1 allows the Twave channel 1 amplitude to
            define the normal mode amplitude on Twave channel 2. Mode 2
            behaves as Mode 1 with the addition that Twave 2 voltage will define
            Twave 1 voltage in the compress state.

Compression table commands are case sensitive. Below are a number of
compression table commands that illustrate the capability.

Both of the following tables show 2 compression cycles followed by 2 normal
cycles. Note that the repeat or count parameter follows the command and its
assumed to be 1 if not defined.
        CCNN
        C2N2
The following table shows changing parameters before defining twave states.
In this case the compression time is set to 200mS, the twave channel 2 pulse
voltage it set to 30 volts and the order is set to 5 then a compression cycle is
executed. When the compression cycle finishes the twave channel 2 voltage
is set to 50 then another compression cycle is executed followed by 2 normal
cycles.
        c200v30O5Cv50CN2
This final example shows how the looping capability works. In this example
the commands enclosed by the […] are repeated the number of times defined
by the number that follows the ], in this case 10.
        C[NCCN]10N

ARB mode:


