FAIMS control tab

The FAIMS tab allows you to enable and disable FAIMS and monitor the output
 voltages. All the FAIMS tuning and setup is performed using the FAIMS 
 controller's user interface. The FAIMS tab allows you to monitor and 
 control the CV and BIAS voltages as well as the offset value. The offset 
 value allows you to define the range for CV and BIAS. Changing offset will 
 not change the output voltage, just the range. With offset set at 0 the CV 
 and BIAS channels have a range of -250 to 250V. The offset will allow you 
 to center this range about any value from -250 to 250V. For example if you 
 set the offset to 100V then the range will be -150 to 350V. The FAIMS tab 
 also supports the CV parking feature that is used with a LC separation. 
 You can define a list of retention times and windows with their associated 
 CV and BIAS values. The system will automatically adjust the CV and BIAS 
 values as the LC separation progresses. 

You will find three frames or sections on the FAIMS tab, each is described below:

FAIMS RF
  This section allows you to enable and disable the RF generation of the 
  FAIMS system and to define the drive level in percent, 0 to 100 %. 
  The other boxes in this section are display only indicating the total 
  power and output peak positive and negative voltages.

  Before using these options it’s assumed that your system has been 
  installed and tuned. These controls are to allow control of a fully 
  configured system. The FAIMS controller user interface has a lot of 
  additional controls to allow setup and tuning of the system and the 
  FAIMS manual outlines the procedures.

DC voltage control
  This section allows you to define the DC bias and CV values as well 
  as monitor their current values. Each of the parameters has a setpoint 
  that you can control and an actual value that will show what the system 
  is monitoring on the outputs. The setpoint and the actual should be 
  very close. As described above the offset allows you to define the 
  range of the DC bias and CV parameters.

CV parking
  This section allows you to define a list of targets and the system will 
  automatically adjust the CV and DC bias values as the LC separation 
  progresses. The first large text box labeled “List of compounds, RT, 
  RT window, CV and Bias” contains the data the system needs to run a 
  LC experiment and automatically adjust values. You can manually enter 
  data into this window by just typing your values in or you can use the 
  Load cvs file button to load this window from a file on your computer. 
  Below is an example of the values that can appear in this window:

    Compound 1, 12.3, 2, 150, 200
    Compound 2, 15.5, 2, 175, 210

  In this example we have a target list of two compounds. After the system 
  starts it will wait for 11.3 minutes and then set the CV to 150 volts and 
  the bias to 200 volts. The system will then stay at these settings for 2 
  minutes before it looks for the next target. The important point to remember 
  is the system reads the targets from this window so if nothing is in the 
  window nothing will happen!

  The best way to load this window is using the Load csv file button. 
  Pressing this button will open a file selection box that will allow 
  you to select a file on your computer. The file must be a comma separated 
  variable file and the first record must contain a header that defines the 
  column names. The system will search the header for the following names 
  to identify the needed data:

     Compound
     Retention Time
     RT Window
     Compensation Voltage
     Bias

  The order of these parameters is not important but these records have to be 
  present. Its ok if addition records are present in the header, they will be 
  ignored. If the needed parameters are found the system will read the file, 
  sort the data and then populate the window. This is the best way to setup 
  the list of targets. Excel can be used to edit and update the cvs file as 
  needed for your research.

  With the list of targets defined you are ready to start an experiment. You 
  will need to synchronize the start of the software with your LC separation. 
  There are two ways to do this; you can manually press the Start button when 
  your LC separation starts or externally trigger the system. The External 
  trigger selection box will allow you to select manual (None) or one of the 
  TTL inputs on the back of the FAIMS controller (Q through T). If you select 
  one of the TTL inputs you will still need to press the start button but the 
  system will display a message that it is waiting for a trigger. Your mass 
  spectrometer will need to be setup to provide a TTL logic level high pulse 
  when the LC separation starts.

  When the system is running the status box will communicate the system state 
  and the elapsed time box will show how long since the system started. 
  The Compound, CV, and Bias boxes show the current system target.

  This software version does not allow saving the settings on this tab or 
  restoring them. This capability will be added in the future. You can however 
  copy the contents of the target window to a text file using standard computer 
  copy and paste operations. This will allow you to save any manual entries 
  or edits you have made.
