The MIPS application allows users to write their own scripts, MIPS provides support 
for application scripting with ECMAScript. 

ECMAScript is a trademarked scripting-language specification standardized by Ecma 
International in ECMA-262 and ISO/IEC 16262. It was created to standardize 
JavaScript, so as to foster multiple independent implementations.

Here is a link to a useful Java Script tutorial site: 
https://www.w3schools.com/js/default.asp

The scripting capability has been customized by exposing the class “mips” to the 
scripting system. This class has a number of functions that allow you to 
communicate with the MIPS application and any connected MIPS controllers. 

There are two ways to enable the scripting system in the MIPS application; from 
the Tools menu of the main MIPS dialog or from a custom user control panel if 
the control panel has enabled scripting. The functions available from the mips 
class are different depending on where the scripting is enabled.

When scripting is enabled you will see a scripting dialog box popup that will 
allow you to enter your script into a text window, load a script from a file or 
save your script to a file. You will also fine a execute button to start you 
script and an abort button to stop a running script. Below the execute button 
is a status message area that will display any errors or final results from your 
script. A simple example is to enter 4+5 into the scripting text window and press 
Execute, you will see 9 in the status message area.

Use caution writing scripts, do not write a tight loop such as while(true); this 
will never release the processor and lock up the application. A loop as shown 
above will not allow the abort button to work because the button press will never 
be processed.  Calling function in the mips class allows the system to process 
events and enables the abort capability so modifying the tight loop example to 
while(true) mips.msDelay(1); will not lock the system up and you and press the 
abort button to exit. If you end all of your scripts with status = “done”; then 
you will see “done” in the status area when your script finishes.

Below is a list of functions available from the mips class, these functions are 
always available regardless of where the scripting system was started:

mips. SendCommand(name,cmd);
   This function will send a command to the named MIPS system. The function is useful 
   when you have multiple connected MIPS system and allows you to direct a message to 
   a specific system. The argument “name” is a string defining the MIPS system name 
   and cmd is any valid MIPS command string. This function it intended to send commands 
   that do not return data. Example mips. SendCommand(“MIPS-1”,“SDCB,1,10\n”); will 
   set DCbias channel 1 to 10 volts on the MIPS system named MIPS-1.

   Returns true if the command was accepted and false if rejected.
mips. SendMess(name,message);
   This function will send a command to the named MIPS system. The function is 
   useful when you have multiple connected MIPS system and allows you to direct 
   a message to a specific system. The argument “name” is a string defining the 
   MIPS system name and cmd is any valid MIPS command string. This function it 
   intended to send commands that will return data. Example 
   mips.SendMess(“MIPS-1”, “GVER\n”); will return the current MIPS firmware 
   version string for the MIPS system named MIPS-1.

   Returns a string containing the reply from MIPS.
mips. msDelay(delay);
   This function will delay for the number of milliseconds defined by the integer 
   delay. This function will not return until the delay time has expired. While 
   your script is delaying the MIPS application will use this time to process 
   events.  Example; mips.msDelay(1000);
mips.statusMessage(message);
   This function will display a message on the status bar of the main MIPS dialog. 
   This is the bottom line of the MIPS application dialog. This is useful for your 
   script to communicate its status to the user.
mips.popupMessage(message);
   This function will popup a dialog box containing the message defined by “message”. 
   This popup will stop script processing and wait for the user to press the “OK” 
   button.
mips.popupYesNoMessage(message);
   This function will popup a message with Yes and No response buttons. The message 
   displayed is defined by “message” and should be in the form of a yes or no 
   questions. This function will not return until the user and pressed the yes 
   or no button.
mips.popupUserInput(title, message);
   This function allows a script to popup a user input dialog box. This function 
   allows you to define the title of the dialog box and a message asking for the 
   type of input you expect from the user. This function returns a string that 
   contains the user response.

Below is a list of functions available from the mips class that are only available 
when the scripting system is started from the MIPS Tool menu:

mips. SendCommand(cmd);
   This function will send a command string to the connected MIPS system. Any valid 
   command string can be sent to a MIPS system. Make sure you terminate the command 
   with the end of line character \n. This function it intended to send commands 
   that do not return data. Example mips.SendCommand(“SDCB,1,10\n”); will set 
   DCbias channel 1 to 10 volts.

   Returns true if the command was accepted and false if rejected.
mips. SendMess(cmd);
   This function will send a command string to the connected MIPS system. Any valid 
   command string can be sent to a MIPS system. Make sure you terminate the command 
   with the end of line character \n. This function it intended to send commands that 
   will return data. Example mips. SendMess( “GVER\n”); will return the current MIPS 
   firmware version string.

   Returns a string containing the reply from MIPS.

Below is a list of functions available from the mips class that are only available 
when the scripting system is started from a custom control panel:

mips.Save(filename);
   This command will save the current settings on your control panel to a method 
   file that you define by filename. The argument filename should include the 
   full path to the file you wish to save. All of the settings are saved to 
   filename and this file is in text format so you can read it with any text 
   editor. The settings saved include all the voltages, RF frequencies and 
   drive levels.

   This function returns a status string indicating the results of the save operation.
mips.Load(filename);
   This command will load a settings file and update all the parameters on your 
   control panel. The filename define the full path and file name to the settings 
   file you wish to load. After all the parameters have been loaded the system will 
   delay for 3 seconds to allow everything to stabilize before resuming screen updates.

   This function returns a status string indicating the results of the load operation.
mips.SystemShutdown();
   This function is designed to put your system is a safe shutdown state while 
   saving the operating settings before shutting down. This function will disable 
   the DCbias voltages by turning off the supply and also set all the RF drive 
   levels to zero as well as setting ESI voltages to zero.  The system will pause 
   screen updates for 3 seconds after the function is called.
mips.SystemEnable();
   This function will restore the system from a shutdown state. When the system is 
   shutdown all the operating settings are remembered, this function will restore 
   those operating parameters and enable system operation. The system will pause 
   screen updates for 3 seconds after the function is called.
mips.Acquire(filepath);
   This function is designed to start a data acquisition and acts similar to 
   pressing the Trigger button on the IFT control box on your control panel. 
   This function requires your control panel to have defined the IFT option. 
   The filepath parameter defines where the files will be saved from the acquire 
   operation. If the filepath is already present then the final folder name in 
   the path will have a sequence number added or advanced to insure the path is 
   unique. It is required that the filepath is present up to the final folder 
   name. After the filepath is created the current settings will be saved to 
   the defined path and the Acquire application will be started, this application 
   name is defined in your control panel configuration file. The console IO to 
   and from the Acquire program is directed to a dialog box that will appear 
   after this function is called. The MIPS application will wait for the Acquire 
   application to issue a “Ready” message and then the pulse sequence will be 
   started causing the data collection to begin. The Acquire program is a command 
   line application and it can communicate with MIPS by printing output to its 
   console. The Acquire application can plot data on the displayed console dialog 
   by issuing a plot command and then following it up with a plot data. An example 
   control panel and Acquire program is included with the MIPS app, this is a c++ 
   program written is QT and illustrates how the acquire program needs to be 
   designed. After the Acquire program finishes the contents of the acquire console 
   is saved to the defined filepath. This function does not block and will return 
   to your script after the call is made and the process is started.

   This function will return true if the process started properly or false if any 
   error is detected.
mips.isAcquiring();
   This function will allow your script to test if the Acquire program is currently 
   running. The Acquire function defined above does not block so you can use this 
   function is a loop to wait for the acquire application to finish.

   This function returns true if Acquire is running else false is returned.
mips.DismissAcquire();
   This function will destroy the Acquire program popup console IO dialog box. 
   This console IO dialog box is not automatically destroyed when the Acquire 
   application finished so this function should be used to remove the dialog.

Below are a few example scripts you can use to learn how the system works and 
build on to address your specific needs. Scripting is a powerful capability and 
can allow you to automate the process of collecting data while scanning parameter 
values to speed the process of characterization. You will find these example 
scripts in the MIPS install director on your system.

Example 1: This is a simple example this illustrates the message IO options. 
After this process starts it will count from 1 to 10 on the status bar and 
then allow you to do it again or stop.

mips.popupMessage("Press OK to start this demo");
mips.statusMessage("here we go!");
while(true)
{
   for(i=0;i<10;i++)
   {
      mips.msDelay(1000);
      mips.statusMessage(i+1);
   }
   if(!mips.popupYesNoMessage("That was fun, want to do it again?")) break;
}
mips.statusMessage("finished");
status = "done";

Example 2: This script will acquire 5 datasets and must be run from a control 
panel. You can use the example control panel to test this script. You will 
need to make sure the filepath is correct on your system. 

mips.popupMessage("Press OK to start demo");
// Read 5 data files.
for(i=0;i<5;i++)
{
   mips.Acquire("/Users/GAA/desktop/test.0001");
   while(mips.isAcquiring()) mips.msDelay(1000);
   mips.DismissAcquire();
}
status = "done";

Example 3: This last example script illustrates the use of the popupUserInput 
and changing a MIPS voltage in a data collection loop. This script assumes we 
are connected to a MIPS controller named MIPS. The script must be run from a 
custom control panel and have an IFT defined.

mips.popupMessage("Press OK to start demo");
count = mips.popupUserInput("Setup","Enter number of dataset to record:");
startV = mips.popupUserInput("Setup","Enter inital voltage:");
stepV = mips.popupUserInput("Setup","Enter voltage step:");
for(i=0;i<count;i++)
{
   voltage = startV + stepV * i;
   mips.statusMessage(voltage);
   mips.SendCommand("MIPS", "SDCB,1," + voltage + "\n");
   mips.msDelay(100);
   mips.Acquire("/Users/GAA/desktop/test.0001");
   while(mips.isAcquiring()) mips.msDelay(1000);
   mips.DismissAcquire();
}
status = "done";

These three examples give you an idea of what is possible using your own scripts 
to define specialized experiments. Please let us know if you need additional 
features or find bugs.
