                  Single Funnel Instrument Control Panel

This graphical interface is design to allow control of all the RF and DC parameters
used on a typical single funnel system. The interface requires connection to a
MIPS system with the following modules:

 1 – RF drivers
 1 – 250V DC bias modules
 1 – ESI module (+- 4000V)

The connection details for these modules are provided later in this help file.

To use this control panel you will first need to make a communications connection
to your MIPS system. This is explained in the general help area. You can close
the Single Funnel control panel and then select the system tab on the MIPS app,
next select general help to read the connection details.

Opening and closing this control panel will not change any of the parameters in
MIPS. When the control panel loads to reads all the settings from MIPS and updates
the control panel. Changes you make through the control panel are sent to MIPS and
saved there as long as power is on. You can use the save and load menu options to
save all you setting to a file or restore previously saved settings.

To change a parameter, just click on the box and enter the value to desire. You
must press enter to send this value to the MIPS system.

The offset parameter allow output range control for the DC bias output channels.
The offset can be set from -250 to 250 volts. Below are examples of how offset defines
the output range:
 Offset = 0         range = -250 to 250 volt.
 Offset = 250       range = 0 to 500 volt.
 Offset = -250      range = -500 to 0 volt.
 Offset = 150       range = -100 to 400 volt.

The RF head has an Auto Tune and Retune button. These buttons are used to
reestablish the optimal operating frequency (resonance) for the RF head. Only one
RF head can be tuned at a time.
  Auto Tune
      This function will set the RF head drive level to 10% and search from 500 KHz to
      5 MHz for the resonate frequency. After the frequency is found the drive will
      remain at 10%. This operation can take up to 3 minutes to complete.
  Retune
      This function does not change the current drive level and re establishes the optimal
      frequency by make small changes relative to the current operating frequency. This
      operation is faster and will take up to 1 minute. It is important that the system
      is operating at or near the desired frequency and drive level.

Parameters can be saved and restored using the Save and Load function found under
the File menu selection.

Parameters can be changed using the MIPS front panel and the changes will be read
and displayed by this application. Please note that when you have a control box
selected the application cannot update its contents so if you change a value on
the MIPS box for a box that you have selected you will not see the change until
you deselect the box.

When you select the Single Funnel control panel from the MIPS app menu the main
MIPS app System tab will be selected automatically. With the control panel running
you can change the main MIPS app tab selection but it is recommended that you leave
it on the System tab, you will see strange behavior depending on the tab you select
with the Single Funnel control panel running.

Configuration of system:

DCbias channel connections:
 1		Funnel DC in
 2		Funnel DC out
 3		Conductance limit
 4		Heated inlet DC

RF driver channel assignment
 1		Low power head, funnel 1



