Twave Module

The MIPS Traveling Wave generator enables the user to define any 8-bit binary pattern
that will be used to generate 8 output waveforms. An internal adjustable clock is used
to rotate this bit pattern to the left on each clock cycle as illustrated in the
sequence below:

            00000011
            00000110
            00001100
            00011000
            00110000
            01100000
            11000000
            10000001

At each clock pulse the pattern rotates one bit position to the left with the most
significant bit rotating back to the least significant bit. Each bit position defines
a waveform for a total of 8 waveforms. Each waveform is identical but shifted one clock
cycle from its neighbor. These 8 waveforms appear on the 8 output BNC connectors on
the rear panel of the MIPS Twave power supply.

The user can reverse the direction of the traveling wave using the provided user interface
option or by configuring an input to support external control of direction.

The user can control the pulse peak voltage (high state) from 7 to 100 volts and the The
pulse voltage must always exceed 7 volts for the power supply to operate properly.

The Twave sequence generation can be synchronized using a trigger signal applied to a
input on the rear panel of the MIPS box. This trigger signal can be definded along with
its active edge using the MIPS user interface. When this tigger occues it will initialized
the sequence to the user defined pattern.

This dialog box allows you to control the key twave parameters ans save to a file or recall
a previous setup using the load and save menu options.

Multi-pass compressor control table.

The multi-pass compressor control table is designed to allow control of the twave
parameters and synchronize parameter changes with the operation of the
compressor. The table is a simple string of characters with all commands being a
single character. The table also contains parameters and these are always whole
number parameters and they follow the command character. There are two types of
commands, state change commands and twave parameter commands.

State change commands stop the execution of the table until the state has
completed, for example a C or compression command will stop the table execution
until a full compression cycle has finished.

Twave parameter commands execute immediately and change controlling
parameters such as voltages and timing parameters.

State change commands
       N    Normal non-compressed twave cycle
       C    Compression cycle
       D    Delay, holds current state and stops the clock

Twave parameter commands
       S    Controls the output switch state, 1 and 0 for open and close
       O    Compression order or ratio
       V    Twave 1 pulse voltage
       v    Twave 2 pulse voltage
       F    Twave frequency
       c    Compression time in mS
       n    Normal time in mS, a compression cycle is the sum of c and n
       t    Non compression cycle time
       s    Stop the twave clock
       r    Restart the twave clock
       o    Defines gate open time in mS
       g    Time in mS from start of table to gate open
       G    Time in mS from start of table to gate close
       [    Start of a loop
       ]    End of a loop
       M    This is a mode command that defines the behavior of the compressor.
            There are three valid modes, 0, 1, and 2.  Mode 0 is the normal mode
            and Twave 1 and 2 amplitude controls set respective output pulse
            voltages in all states. Mode 1 allows the Twave channel 1 amplitude to
            define the normal mode amplitude on Twave channel 2. Mode 2
            behaves as Mode 1 with the addition that Twave 2 voltage will define
            Twave 1 voltage in the compress state.

Compression table commands are case sensitive. Below are a number of
compression table commands that illustrate the capability.

Both of the following tables show 2 compression cycles followed by 2 normal
cycles. Note that the repeat or count parameter follows the command and its
assumed to be 1 if not defined.
        CCNN
        C2N2
The following table shows changing parameters before defining twave states.
In this case the compression time is set to 200mS, the twave channel 2 pulse
voltage it set to 30 volts and the order is set to 5 then a compression cycle is
executed. When the compression cycle finishes the twave channel 2 voltage
is set to 50 then another compression cycle is executed followed by 2 normal
cycles.
        c200v30O5Cv50CN2
This final example shows how the looping capability works. In this example
the commands enclosed by the […] are repeated the number of times defined
by the number that follows the ], in this case 10.
        C[NCCN]10N

